and when i played there was like no
coaches
there was like nobody supporting you on
that stuff so it's like
it's like well go deal with yourself
this is definitely tough yeah go deal
with it yourself sounds like the story
of your life brandon
fun times
uh by the whole monastery thing what do
you mean
oh no one can oh you're sorry you're
you're muted sorry sorry sorry that's my
bad i forgot one thing keep going
you're good now you're like you know
where you cast off all your belongings
and
go to like live in the temple with all
you know the other
the monks and all that or did you just
like study and
no so i um i st so yeah it's a good
question so i tried to do that so i i
spent one summer in a monastery at the
age of 21
and decided i wanted to become a monk um
so i
you know was learning from monks and i
went to them and i said i'm ready to
take my vows and i want to become a monk
and they said you're crazy and then
i was like what no but i really love
this i want to do this and they're like
that's totally cool so you can come here
and study with us but you're not ready
to take your vows
we want you to finish your education we
want you to go get a doctoral degree
you can come here and study with us you
can stay as long as you want to
but you need to complete certain worldly
duties
and then if you still want to take your
vows at the age of 30
we will take you and i said sure you're
just like no thanks
like no thanks afterwards no no i was i
was like yeah absolutely sounds good
so then i spent several years doing what
they told me to do i spent every summer
in india
usually like winter breaks as well while
i was in college
um so would spend like anywhere between
two and four months
in monasteries also traveled to
different monasteries
across india south korea and japan
and studied with different teachers um
and then really wasn't sure like which
tradition to take vows in um
you know i had my original teachers and
they said like you can come back when
you're 30.
and i was like cool and i went back
every year and they continued to teach
me
and then um how do you know i'm 38.
uh so did you end up going i mean i'm
assuming you didn't go back and commit
so why'd you not commit because i met my
wife and fell in love
and as it turns out my teachers were
very very wise
and understood that my desire to become
a monk
was out of escapism it was a genuine
love for what i was learning but there
was a heavy
component of escaping an ego
so they were like okay that makes sense
they were like you can't give up a life
that you don't have right so they were
like go and build a life
and have something worth giving up and
then give it up and become a monk
they're like go build something make
sense
um i understand yeah and you're like so
young when you're like going in and
you're like
you know how like when you think
everything is like magnified so much
higher when you're younger
and it's like uh yeah like i've done all
this stuff and i've experienced a lot of
things like no you haven't
yeah absolutely so my teachers were very
wise then they're still
wise now i think they understood me
and they still taught me a lot and then
i ultimately also discovered or realized
also through their help
that becoming a monk is just something
that you do on the outside
right so like there are actually like
you can become like
the real work of a monk is not has
nothing to do with the outside world it
has everything to do with like
the internal world so i still practice
in a robust way that i would if i was a
monk
uh because everything's internal doing
like the mantras and all that
yep i was actually learning about um
like zen buddhism and all the you know
some of those other things and like
it's interesting how they like one of
the health aspects that they
have like that they that we don't really
think about in like our society is like
sat like the inner monologue like sound
within you know like that's why they do
mantras to like replace
like how your brain is like going down
like a different path you can like do a
mantra like make it go down like another
path
i don't know i'm like i'm like not like
that well versed in it but i was like
just like
reading the lip button a little bit and
i thought that was interesting that is
interesting
does that appeal to you oh yeah i've
like
tried it you know it's like when i feel
like uh
i don't say like i'm getting overwhelmed
but like my brain is like going off
somewhere that i don't want it to go
and like i i don't i don't wanna sound
like a self-diagnosed like add or
whatever but it's like definitely my
mind wonders a lot so it's like
it's like i sometimes do that just like
recenter myself
i think i try to practice mindfulness or
whatever cool
so let's start by just uh can you tell
me what you go by or what i should call
you today
you just call me brandon it's okay and
we seem to be lagging a little bit
yeah so um and brandon so it sounds like
we're talking about focus today
uh yeah we can talk about that we talked
about any other thing you'd be honest
i was like uh you guys asked me what i
wanted to talk about and then
i ended up like watching uh the ice
beside poseidon episode you guys did
and like as he's going through all that
i'm like wow there's like a lot of
parallels here that i'm like
hey i'm like that's not good
oh my goodness okay yeah yeah so i was
like uh we talked about anything though
like i'm
i'm an open book and uh you know
i'm i'm definitely like self-aware of
like all the
i'm like a work in progress you know
what i mean sure aren't we all
aren't we all yeah so tell me where did
your work in progress begin
like what tell me what tell me a little
bit about yourself man
about myself oh you want like my whole
my story or
sure well i mean basically i
you know normal person went to high
school in small town
in like greenville south carolina um
did that uh i was addicted super
addicted to video games
you know to the point where like
basically i would spend
all my high school time like sleeping if
i was in class i was sleeping
and then if i went and then half the
time i wouldn't show up so i just stay
at home and like play games
um so then i like missed so many days of
my uh high school year that i
uh they're like you have to repeat this
i just dropped out and like
got my ged or whatever and then i ended
up going to like community college like
working random jobs
and uh and then i
just got bored of that and one day i
just randomly signed up for the navy
i was just like okay this is like super
border school
i just like on a whim signed up for the
navy did that for like three and a half
years
and then i got out of that went to
university um
i was studying uh pre-med i wanted to be
like a
orthopedic surgeon um and then in my
senior year i ended up
playing in some tournament uh in europe
and we ended up like winning it for like
league of legends so
i ended up i was like wow this could
like actually kind of take off and i had
a very addictive personality kind of so
and i was super
even though i was like doing school and
all that i was like still super addicted
to games
um so i just on a whim dropped out my
senior year and
ended up like playing pro league uh for
a couple years and like coaching it
and then i stopped doing that and
i just i stream like a game called tft
and i do like day trading on the side
too
and that's pretty much that yeah but
just to paraphrase my entire like i um
i feel like my entire 20s uh is like a
very
uh very self-destructive let's just say
that
like i think i think i spent like my
whole like early 20s like drunk
like per like literally permanently
drunk and uh
and then the second half of my twenties
i just spent like permanently high so
i definitely have like a very very
addictive personality
and that's something like i had to like
gain control of and
yeah definitely led to some interesting
interesting
life uh some interesting life moments
can you i i find myself being incredibly
curious can you share
some i would you know tease
well yeah like i obviously i drink a lot
when i was in the military because
that's just what everybody does
and then drink a lot in college that's
just people are partying and then
but like that carried over into like
when i was like playing games
uh like on the team and i basically
would like we do our scrims and then
like the
moment the scripts would get done i
would just get like i would just drink
a lot and i would become a very like uh
i like to argue with people like i'm not
like physically fight but like
verbally fighting stuff like that or
like it like really
like messed up with like a lot of my
relationships with people and stuff and
my teammates
and then obviously like uh like when i i
like wouldn't get good sleep because you
know when you go to sleep when you're
drunk or whatever uh like messes up your
sleep and i can like go into practice
and then it just like becomes this like
self-destructive cycle
and yeah i don't drink anymore just to
like
fair praise on that but it's like uh
yeah why not it's definitely
um i just don't feel the need to and i
mean i still drink socially like if i go
out like
my friends will have like a drink but
like i don't drink at home i won't keep
it in the house
um i just kind of like fell out of it uh
actually
the moment i stopped is when i started
smoking weed and i was i
replaced one vice with another vice like
in my mid-20s
and it's like i said i have like a very
addictive personality
and what does that mean a very addictive
personality you keep watching that
phrase when i get into something
i'm like uh i say
like i just it could be a game even like
it's like i become
i don't know for games in particular
like i become obsessed with it
like it's all i can think about like all
i want to do
um and i think i use it uh i think i do
things like that i don't want to say
it's a form of escapism but it's like
it's more so like uh i guess i'm like
really bored of like
normal like everyday like living kind of
thing i don't know i'm using it as a way
to like escape from that you know
i think that's like what i like i kind
of like came to the realization of so
sounds like you've had a lot of varied
experiences man like you've like lived
life yeah i guess yeah we've been out
there
yeah it's you know playing
professionally
joining the navy struggling with an
addictive personality
like you know odd jobs community college
pre-med
dreams of being an orthopedic surgeon
there's like there's like a lot in there
bro
yeah we're in there doing stuff not
anymore though i just i just a bum now
i just play video games yeah how's how's
that going
uh it's okay i stream a game called tft
it's like a
it's like a car i want to say like a
card game like a glorified card game so
it's like a chill game where you can
just like hang out and talk to people
so i kind of do that and then
uh just try to do trade stocks on the
side
whatever you know all the normal stuff
yeah and
hang out with the my
so and all that and you know
so so how do you understand your
addictive personality how can you
explain to us what that
is like what it's like
um
for like games or like when i was when i
was drinking or like i feel like it
varies from thick thing to thing
it's because it's like uh
i feel like um at least like passively
my mind
i i find like if i'm not like super
engaged i
am very very active like i'm always like
very active mind like always thinking
about like a million different things
and i find that if like
at least in my 20s if i didn't like numb
that out like my brain would just like
explode
i'd just be like thinking about too many
things like the future like all this
you know all like but you know all the
normal stuff right that
any person would think about but it's
like can you give us an example of what
you would think about if you didn't numb
your mind
uh just like uh just existential crisis
uh like what am i gonna be doing in the
future
like uh past interactions i've had with
people or like future interactions i'm
going to have with people
um like where am i going to be and like
you know i'm sure like everybody worries
about this kind of stuff but it's like
my like it's like very overwhelming for
me and
uh and like i couldn't turn it off so
it's like i guess i would just drink to
turn it off
or i would like smoke myself into a
stupor to turn it off
or do like whatever you know and uh
that was basically like my coping
mechanism with it and then
i got like a lot into like philosophy
and
kind of did like some other interesting
like therapeutic stuff to
to to like kind of break myself out of
that cycle i want to say
so like i'm good now when did you
realize why did you try to break out of
the cycle can you help us understand
like how you came to realize that this
was a cycle and that it needed to end
well it's realizes like well obviously
like
it's pretty easy to realize that being
drunk all the time is bad
and and also like i didn't like smoking
because even
uh just to kind of like give you info
it's like when you smoke all the time
it's like uh
uh i think it like builds up like a a
massive
like the more you smoke like it it it's
like um
over time will like build up like a
massive layer of anxiety so it's like
you're
using it to escape from something but
it's like actually like
building up like what you're trying to
escape from you know what i mean
so it's like and then one day it just it
came to like a brim and i just like
i just stopped smoking too so it's like
because like when i would be
when i would be out of like the out of
the state of smoking i would get like
we're normal i would have like massive
anxiety because it's like i'm
i'm not used to like the nor the
normality you know what i mean
so yeah so it's like and then one day i
just realized like i just
i i just some reason i just like didn't
need to do it anymore i don't know
i was like woke up one day i just didn't
eat it i was like i'm just gonna stop
this
and i just like was okay i don't even
understand how it happened but
what do you think about that well what
just stopping
yeah how does that that's kind of
interesting
well i mean at the time i was reading a
lot of like a philosophy
and um like uh one
one thing that really like helped me was
like this concept of uh
basically like the past not existing in
the future not existing the only thing
that
exists in is like real is the present
and basically like being in the present
because a lot of my issues of like the
anxiety were like
like thinking about the future right or
you know or thinking about things that
happened in the past
right but if you like remove those like
concepts as ideas
and like the only thing that is is real
or like matters to you and there's in
front of you
is like right now like this conversation
with you right now and then
bringing your mind to like being like in
that moment
at all times you know so i just like
it sounds ridiculous to try not to think
about the future but
um just more like yeah just more
focusing on the present
and that just that concept helped me out
a lot
so it sounds like you were because
here's what i'm imagining
brandon is that there are people who are
watching this right and like
so in my day job i'm actually like in a
d well i don't even know if that's true
anymore because this has become my day
job but
um in in my day job as of one year ago
i used to be an addiction psychiatrist i
mean i still have i still see about 10
patients a week
but um you know the the interesting
thing is that
like when i when i talk to
my patients when i work with patients
most of them know
just like you said like they know that
like drinking every day is not a good
idea that using pot every day is not a
good idea
they'll even realize that like oh my
anxiety is actually getting worse and
i've become
chemically dependent on marijuana
um and and then like
even though they know that they still
wake up
in in on a given day like that anxiety
they experience is so bad that they like
can't
they literally like can't stop right and
then it becomes a routine
yeah it's like a routine so so it's kind
of interesting to hear you say one day i
woke up and i just ah
didn't do it anymore well it's not like
it was like a build up it's like i was
meant it's like i was mentally
conditioning myself every day
like tweaking like little knobs and
there's other things that like went into
like me helping i don't know if
i can talk about them but uh it's like
uh but it's like i was tweaking knobs in
my brain
like a little bit every day and then
eventually i got it to like
i'm like reading things you know like
listening to lectures
like um talking to people like that like
and kind of like trying to tweak my view
like a little bit every day and
eventually it's like i got
my mind to like the view i needed to
to just stop so it's not it's not like i
just welcome like here i am it's like
you know
i i had to work on it for sure and and
so what i'm kind of curious on is if
your mind is
you said you got your mind to get the
view that you needed
yes which implies that there is some
kind of force within you that is guiding
your mind
i mean don't we all we have our inner
monologue or ego
i i i don't know is it what would you
because because when you say you got
your mind
to where it needed to go what is the
part of you that knew where you needed
to go
i mean the part where it's like i know i
don't
like how i feel like when i smoke all
the time or when i drink all the time
like obviously it's i don't know
like a moral barometer is not the right
word but it's like you know it's not
right you know and like
and you don't feel right what would you
call that part of yourself because it
sounds like it's actually not a part of
your mind
um because that's right
is that's what you would call it yeah
it's your ego is your monologue
okay so it's an inner monologue so you
you wouldn't you would separate your
inner monologue from your mind
um i mean i mean your inner monologue is
you that's who you that's
that's your mind isn't it doesn't it i
mean you could say like your mind is
like your subconscious and like all
these other things that are like going
into it
right but like your inner monologue is
like your mind that's like on the
forefront right
what does that mean on the forefront or
it's like the one that's like
active that you can like like you can
you know get like conversations with
yourself and like yep all that kind of
like it's the one that you're
i don't see you interact with but it's
like the one that you like
is like the loudest you know like the
one that you can yeah because
i know the subconscious plays like a big
big effect on all this kind of stuff too
but
so when you say inner monologue you're
talking about thoughts
in your head the conversation between
two parts of you
yes i see and and so
one of those and you would call one of
those your ego
yeah he goes who you are like it's um
i mean that's basically what it is it's
your your identity as a person right
like to yourself yeah yeah so i
personally i would say that who you are
and your identity are two separate
things
to yourself i mean not obviously like
your identity to other people is much
different than the thoughts that are
going on in your head and
you know that you think yeah so i would
say that your ego and who you are
are two separate things what would you
define like uh
so what would you define the ego as the
sense of i so like i have a sense
of who i am right yes like i have a
construction in my mind about who i am
yeah but that yeah but you're like
that's what i'm talking about like i'm
chiseling away
like at that identity because you can
get locked into like
this is who i am or like this is what i
do every day or like this is my routine
you know yeah so and so who's doing the
chiseling if you're chiseling on your
identity
who is it that's chiseling
uh i'm not i mean it's like
i mean my me just being self-aware and
it's like i
am aware that i want to change this and
that's just the only way i know how is
like my little like gradual changes
so if you look at the the yogic model
which is going to be consistent with
like zen buddhism
they would say that there are more
we'll highlight three right now there
are three discrete parts of your like
internal experience
one is awareness one is identity
and one is mind okay that's why you were
like
trying to separate them okay i guess
yeah and i i think you
you know it sounds like you actually
know that it's just it's an issue of
vocabulary and like precision
in terms of our language but you know
like
it's the part of you that is aware of
stuff
that is sort of like looking from the
outside and if you're chiseling away at
your identity that makes perfect sense
and also when you kind of talk a little
bit about inner monologue right like
it's sort of like
there's a part of you that is aware of
stuff
and that awareness can only exist in the
present whereas if you think about
the identity the identity is something
that's a little bit more longitudinal
your sense of identity
by necessity involves or not by
necessity but generally speaking
involves
things from the past and things in the
future and also your mind has things in
the past and things in the future
but awareness can only exist in the
present
and that if you were in the present then
you would be
sitting more in awareness and that's
kind of something i was talking about
earlier i guess
yep exactly so that that's how i would
that's how i would arrange these puzzle
pieces
um which it sounds like you unders you
know sounds like we're talking about the
same thing
yeah yeah yeah
so you mentioned that there are certain
things that you may not be able to talk
about i was kind of confused about that
uh
um you don't have to talk about it i'm
just confused why you wouldn't be able
to talk about something is that like a
personal barrier or like a tos thing or
what
uh not personal barrier i'm fine um i
don't really care actually i'll talk
about it there's like uh
okay let's say you talked about the the
ice beside and stuff right
and this is okay i'm gonna get like
maybe i'll
get murdered for this but it's like okay
i feel like i'm on the spectrum a little
bit
and i feel like a lot of gamers are on
the spectrum a little bit and sense of
like
uh very hard to deal with like empathy
and like uh missing social cues and
um you know all all that jazz
uh and it's like that's something i had
to deal with uh i was watching yeah
that's why i mentioned the ice beside
episode is
i feel like i had to deal a lot with
that when i was like in high school and
also like in my earlier years in my
relationships with people
and it's like that's another like knob i
had to like try to tweak as like i went
through this whole process
and um yeah and like also in this whole
process
like uh one of the things i did i ended
up that i don't know
i don't talk about it like i ended up
doing like mdma to like help me
with like this and uh
and like that kind of like uh helped me
understand like logically like what
empathy is
and like help me like also bring like a
different level of happiness
and like the way that like i think like
before like my earlier years like
it was like the vice and like the cycles
and all this other things that like
honestly brought me happiness but like
it gave me a new look on like
what can create happiness in my life and
like the feelings about like
basically it's like when i was on it it
uh i was like
i wanna i was thinking what makes me
happy like in this moment
besides like the chemical effects and
all that and it i
came to the conclusion it's that it's
the experiences that i'm having with
other people
and like sharing an experience and like
caring about other people
and all that kind of you know uh and
that's like what brought me happiness
right
so like before my early years i had
trouble with empathy right
and now it's like logically i can
logically empathize with people
because like i have that understanding
of
like i can logically like piece i can
like piece it out i was like this is
what it means to like carrot you know
yeah yeah that's like that's like one of
the things that also like helped me
break me out of the cycle and like help
me a lot
i i was wondering if you were talking
about psychedelics so i think you know
just to
toss out a couple of things one is that
um
so i've actually had so there are a lot
there's lots of research ongoing i don't
know if you follow any of this stuff
there's an organization called the multi
athletes yeah yeah
so um we act like the i i have a good
relationship with the person who
founded and runs maps he actually came
on stream like six eight months ago to
talk about the work they were doing
um and so rick is a phenomenal guy i
think there's a lot of
recognition now within the psychiatric
community
that um some of these substances have uh
like potential to improve lives um i
think you got to be
so i've had actually patients who have
had like lifelong addictions who have
gone to
treatment facilities outside of the the
united states
and have had really amazing healing
experiences
and i've also had patients who
using these experiences have developed
permanent and crippling
like mental health disorders yeah
it's definitely yeah i mean
it's definitely it's definitely
something i feel like you have to go in
with the
i don't say a purpose but it's like a
lot of people can
use like that type of stuff as like a
form of escapism in its own as well i
think that's like when the issue comes
in so
yeah i mean so just you know for anyone
listening out there i i wouldn't
recommend like
you know because i think your mileage
may vary and we just really don't know
what's safe
um and i've seen you know we hear i've
seen success stories and i've seen like
really dangerous things happen to people
i have definitely seen it too yep so
would not recommend it
um i think for for people who are
curious uh i actually just had a
conversation with someone at maps this
week
and i was a little bit curious about you
know when do you think that fda approval
in the united states for some of these
things could happen could happen as
early as 2022.
so we may be looking at you know they're
in phase three clinical trials so like
you know people may be able to use these
in a therapeutic manner within the next
year under guidance and like you know
being assured of the quality of what
you're getting and stuff like that
because that's a huge issue
well they're already doing it for like
ptsd patients and stuff aren't they
trials trials okay okay so phase three
clinical trials
is the last stage of clinical trials
before something gets
approved as a treatment okay okay that
makes sense
um and then you can you know so
i advise everyone to wait until you can
do it in a safe way
so dr k is saying invade and invest in
shrimp stocks
uh yeah i wouldn't listen to me in terms
of i mean a stock advice
yeah um but what so can you tell us a
little bit when you said that like
you know you related to some of what ice
poseidon was saying like
what was your experience in high school
uh my high school it's i'll just like
kind of talk earlier kind of like how it
would be
basically my parents got divorced when i
was like younger and they were both
working i had three sisters so we had
like a big family
um so my parents they were working like
both full-time jobs
and so like i then they come from work
to be like super tired right
so basically my relationship with them
is like non-existent
you know so i would just like go off to
my room and like play games all the time
24 7.
and i did have a small group of friends
like i would hang out with and all that
but it's like i feel like that that
whole like situation
definitely hurt my
ability to understand like i don't say
like what a uh like a normal human being
relationship
is you know like the yeah all the little
ins and outs of it and that definitely
like carried over and like
throughout like my whole life and i
guess so
in high school and all that you know
being pro gamer
uh just a lot of experiences and that's
something like i've always liked been
battling with
and that's why i brought up like the
what is something you've been battling
with
i just how to explain it um i feel like
especially like earlier in my life it
was very difficult to have what i would
call like a normal
like what i think like the i like the
i don't say like the template but like a
template friendship with somebody or
like
interact like the relationship with
somebody here
can you explain how that was hard for
you or like what would happen
what does that look like empathy was
like extreme like
i like basically felt like no empathy um
it's like it was very hard for me to
like understand like how the other
person was feeling
or like and like i would miss social
cues a lot like
i would just say like random stuff that
like would like hurt them you know or
like do random things that would hurt
them
and like i did i couldn't like
understand
like it like didn't mentally process to
me you know can you tell me a story
about that just to illustrate
so i can because you're giving me kind
of a conclusion i was hoping to get a
little bit more raw data
a story uh
i'll just use like something that's in
the public uh when i was like a pro
gamer i would like get
drunk all the time and like there's like
a incident that's out there like where i
ended up arguing with one of my
teammates like and it was on
like we had cameras set up all like
throughout our house and like would
pretty much stream or
stream is 24 7 which is a ridiculous
idea of course
and i ended up like fighting with one of
my teammates that was like it was
actually my good friend like
i really liked the guy um and i just
said like a bunch of [ __ ] that
was like really hurtful and like mean to
him and uh
yeah and then it's like i look back on
it now and it's like uh
yeah and like in the moment like i don't
understand like any of the stuff that's
going on like obviously i'm drunk too
but it's like
i can't i don't like understand the
situation you know
and like that's like been like a
recurring theme
like throughout my like whole life so
i don't know what's it like to live a
life where you don't understand the
situation
well it's like i understand the
situation but i don't understand like
the feelings involved
that's like a better way looks like you
felt something just now
yeah now i that's what i like i brought
at the end of
it's ridiculous but yeah yeah uh
it's like i can yeah like now like i can
like logically it's like more of like a
logical feeling and then it like
that like so it's like something like
triggers and it's like oh yeah i'm
supposed to feel this
it's like it's really weird
yeah so i don't know but it's it's
definitely been like
something i've like had to deal with
like a very very
very a lot of difficult stuff in my
early 20s with it but
can you tell me a little bit more about
growing up so you said you have three
sisters
older young girls i have one older she's
a psychiatrist too
and uh two younger so and then
yeah my mom my dad and what was it like
um
growing up in in your household
uh well my favorite well before my
parents got divorced we were like the
normal family
you know pretty normal stuff dad get
home from work hang out with him
like my mom just stay at home take care
of the kids
big family and then like one day my
dad like he had like a really good job
and he like he's like i'm gonna
he told my mom like i'm gonna quit my
job and i'm gonna go like start my
i'm gonna go start a business and my
mom's like
yeah wait you have like three kids you
can't do that you know like you have to
like
pay for everybody right like and then uh
he's
like well screw this i'm out and he just
like feeds down like started his own
business
and uh yeah and then like there's like a
whole like
you know all the like the divorce
turmoil with that and
did the divorce i think she said both of
your parents worked growing up
yeah so like after the divorce like my
mom's working full-time
and yeah then my dad's working full-time
and so it's like and then we bounce back
and forth between like who have custody
of us
and like uh you know and
when they come home from work like
they're just burnt out
they're like my dad's like trying to
make this get this business off the
ground my mom's like
trying to work full time like take care
of like three kids so it's like i don't
really have like that relationship with
him you know
how old were you when they got divorced
um
i think i was like eight or nine
probably yeah
and what was your understanding of why
they got divorced
i i understood what's going on at the
time i mean i was young but it's like
i don't understand like the the like i
look back at her now i can like
i try to put you know put myself in in
both of the people's shoes
it's like why did my dad you know leave
and do this and like
try to think like why my mom like what
she was going through
um like obviously i understand the
situation better now but it's like
what did you think at the time at the
time
uh i think it might i think my i mean
i thought i thought my dad was just like
seeing some like woman or something like
that you know like that's like how you
always see like
you cheated on me like that kind of
thing like on the movies and the shows
and all that
but it's like i kind of like more
understanding why like
why he didn't like why he left more it's
not just like something like that
so he when you say left you're not
talking about the job
he left his job and my mom like refused
to let him quit his job right
because yeah so they got a big fight
over that
and then they my dad just like
i'm gonna do this no matter what and he
just ended up leaving to go do it
got it so yep
but that's like an interesting thing it
says like he's like putting himself
before like
his like kids is a relationship all that
kind of stuff so it's like
that's something like it is that how you
see it
well yeah that's like uh i mean
you could see it as like he's like
trying to go like i can make more money
in the future or i can feel more
self-fulfilled
it's basically it's like uh something
where that person is like trying to
self-fulfill like find like a
find like a new new purpose a different
purpose you know what i mean
so have you ever talked to him about
that yeah i talked to him about it
my relationship my family's good it's
not like there's no like bad blood or
hurt or anything like that what's your
understanding of of
after having talked to him how does he
how did he kind of share what his
experience of that was well i pretty
much just
said what i just told you now and he's
just like
i mean because i don't want to like just
i don't i don't like just like going
after people um
without like i want to like try to try
to
empathize and understand like their
position before i'm just like
you know screw you man like that kind of
thing and so
and so like i talked to him about it
like i understand like
why he did it and it's like but it's
still like hurtful that
you know he would put himself before
like
the three kids like if you make you have
three kids like obviously
you you you're responsible for them you
know like
like you've accepted that you've sex
with that responsibility and it's like
basically you're like casting off that
responsibility
like that life-changing uh
experience of having kids and stuff um
you're basically just like running away
from things you know yeah so brandon i'm
asking you because you're saying you try
to understand right
yeah you try to understand other
people's perspective that's the goal
correct
yes so you're telling this story yeah
in the story he's the bad guy
i don't want to say he's about i don't
like the idea of bad guy or a good guy
i i understand but the way that you're
telling the story i think that's the way
he's coming across
yes right yeah so so so in an effort to
understand
i'm asking you if you guys talked about
it what did he say
um i mean he basically like confirmed
what
like kind of stuff i'm talking about
right now and
obviously he's like apologetic and
um and yeah i mean
uh it's like difficult to to like
understand like what a person is
thinking and he kind of talked about
like feeling trapped and
uh yeah cause like you know it's it's
pretty easy for people to get like
trapped in their life
situations and people try to escape in
like all sorts of different ways
sure and this this is you know all about
that right
yes so this is his way of escaping so
yeah what do you what do you think about
him feeling trapped
i mean doesn't everybody feel trapped in
life it's some point
so i don't know what
i'm confused about how that statement
relates to my question
right so you're about to i feel like
it's like
it's understandable that's that's how i
feel about it
i mean i i don't know and that's
interesting
that goes back to like the logic thing
it's like
yep i'm gonna suppose you there for a
second because i think you actually
meant the exact opposite
is it yep so this is so let's understand
your communication what you say
and what your logical mind tells you and
maybe what your emotional
feeling tells you so i asked you how do
you feel about him feeling trapped
and then you're like doesn't everyone
feel that way and the interesting thing
about that if i really had to kind of
like if i had to put my money somewhere
what i'd say is that
it doesn't like everyone deals with this
[ __ ]
and like they all manage so like
he should have learned how to deal with
it too i know it sounds kind of weird
but that's the emotion that i got from
you yeah and then when i ask you what
you mean you say well it's
understandable whereas like actually
what i'm hearing
from you is like the exact opposite that
like he should have manned up
and you know everyone deals with that
and like we all deal with it
like he should have dealt with it too
yes i can yes i understand
you see how the logic and the the
feeling are a little bit maybe different
there
yes i can see
what do you think about that uh
maybe i'm even just like wording it
wrong it's like
i i don't say like i try to like
solidify like what he did
but it's like i'm trying to like
understand like why he would do it and
it's not like i'm giving approval one
way or another
it's just like okay i see why you did it
i don't think you should have done it
but it's like i get it that's like more
like the interaction that's going on
here
yeah so brandon let me know if i step if
i
step out of line okay okay so here's
what i'm
hearing from you okay here's what i'm
noticing you let me know what you think
okay so i'm hearing that you had some
difficulty like connecting to people
understanding people and that
you maybe spent some time escaping from
unclear exactly what you're escaping
from
something like an addictive personality
and then you've actually like worked at
it right like you
read philosophy you studied things you
you know had
mind-altering experiences you've engaged
in relationships you've done a lot of
self-reflection
you joined the military you've done a
lot of things to try to grow as a person
and now you've gotten a lot better
at understanding other people to the
point where it sounds like you have an
so so good job
you know i'm hearing that you have
relationships and things like that so
you've like
learned and grown a lot when it comes to
like developing empathy
you can cry now right like that these
are the things that you've
you've leveled up fair
yes so interestingly enough what i'm
actually finding is like something
kind of weird that's happening which is
that i think the next phase of what you
need to understand is more internal as
opposed to like understanding other
people's points of view
because that statement that you tossed
out i think is a good example of where
all of your lessons of empathy
have actually are actually like
reshaping
some of your instinctive responses to be
like
and then like blind you to your own
experience of stuff
um oh you think i should be like more
bitter towards like what happened or
like more aware of like that feeling or
like i i understand what you're getting
at but it's like do you think that i
should be
like experiencing a more powerful
feeling of like
against like so we're just talking about
the dad's situation right you think i
should be
more like in tune with like feeling
against like this or like with my
feeling of like that
i'd like disagree with it or i would i
think you should have more awareness of
the way that you feel
well i'm definitely aware how i feel on
it and i definitely
disagree with it and i i'm aware that
like all the
trust me i'm aware of all like the
turmoil that like the divorce brought me
and like my family and my mom and my
sisters and all that
i'm definitely aware that but it's like
it's been it's
it's such ancient history it's so long
ago that
it's like i feel like i'm a very
forgiving person
you know and i understand that
like i'm not the same person today that
i was yesterday and i'm not going to be
the same person
tomorrow you know that i am today and
it's more like that i
it hurt me but it's like i'm okay to
like move past it sure
that's more like what i'm like pushing
out when i when i say it like that
yep yeah i'm definitely i'm definitely
aware of like how about you hurt me
yeah so you know just to push back a
little bit on that brandon what you're
saying makes perfect sense
now we're gonna get a little bit nuanced
okay so i think i i think you've
genuinely forgiven your father
i think that like you said you know
you're not making him out to be an
[ __ ] you can understand he felt
trapped like he sounds like he's a good
dude
like we don't want to and so that's why
it's kind of weird because i i
i don't i think you've forgiven him i
don't know if you've moved past
in what way well just because the way
that you talk about it right so like
when you tell the story
and this is why i'm asking you for
stories because i think you've got like
a really good
you've done a really good job of like
constructing what you want to believe
and you can tap into that and at the
same time like when you tell the story
it like you make him sound
like it's not the story is not like one
of
understanding it's one of like yeah he
kind of [ __ ] up there
but he did yeah it's like
yeah right so so so and that's fine too
right and and so it's interesting
it's like weird i think it's like it's
very subtle so i it's clear that you've
done a lot of work
and so i think that like the more we
learn about ourselves like the higher we
climb
right like in terms of our league and
then like you're at
you're at like challenger level now in
terms of like self-growth and
self-awareness
and i don't know about that but i hope
someday yeah
right because i'm still detecting a lot
of emotion essentially that you carry
with you
yeah so i don't get the sense that
you're at peace
about it have you forgiven
yes do you live your life yes
i mean it's not something that i guess
it's like it's not something i think
about
because it's like like i said it's so
long ago like i'm i'm an old fart
just like you it's just it's
it's too much of a lifetime ago you know
and it's like i
i understand like it shaped me as the
person i am
and it's like i don't want to say like
maybe
maybe i find resentment in like how it
shaped me as a person in like my earlier
years
more like maybe that's like what's
coming through but it's
it's not like it active
thing that i'm like against i i get that
i i don't i don't i'm not trying to
demonize your dad or try to convince you
that you hate him because i genuinely do
think you're in a good place i do hate
him now
he convinced me i hate him now but i i
so tell me a little bit about um what it
was like
after they got divorced and what it was
like
yeah uh with the family well
uh they would like take turns like
custody like sometimes
i think there's like one time like me
and my older sister stay with my dad
for a couple of years and then like my
little sisters would stay with my mom or
like
like my mom would have like full custody
of all of us and like
they're like constantly fighting in
courts about like random financial stuff
and
like they were literally like always
going to court
and always like always fighting and
um yeah so i pretty much just like
deflected from all that i took up the
whole like just shot myself in my room
play video games all the time you know
like
i got starcraft i got a cable modem like
let's go you know like
and then i started interacting with
people
people like minecraft us uh protoss
nice yeah um but uh yeah so it's like
i i had the internet i had the internet
like at a very early time like when it's
like fledging state
and i was like interacting with people
in there like making friends on there
and
basically using it like that that world
is like it as a form of escape
sure and so what were you escaping from
just dealing with like my family like
fighting all the time
and just i just like didn't
i guess i didn't know how to like
process it all and i just
and also like i just really liked
playing games
like uh i i like the the
puzzle solving aspect you know like i'm
trying to like figure out how
to to solve this puzzle like to win like
at all costs kind of thing
so do you have a sense of i mean what
like so you said
dealing with it do you like what was it
like when you had to deal with it what
was it like to go to court
and i never went to court with them but
like
you would always always hear about it
and then my parents would always be
complaining about like oh your mom or
your dad
and then like and i would never see them
half the time anyways it's like i said
they'd come home from work
they'd be like super tired and
i i never really felt like i had like uh
deep or meaningful conversations with my
parents at any point like in my younger
years you know like not in like the way
of like
that i think like your normal person
does like
there was no birds in the beast
conversation you know there's no like
life conversations or anything like that
so like nothing like preparing me for
anything like that kind of stuff
and i definitely feel like that kind of
like carried over into
into like my interactions with people
and you know there was like no parenting
going on there
you know it was just like well uh we fed
you
like go have that air like we you know
got your school supplies like good luck
yeah what was it like to grow up without
parents
um i mean it's like i said i just
it's just like figure it out on your own
kind of thing so
uh and yeah just
it's like definitely like trial and
error kind of thing you know yeah
certainly sounds like a fair amount of
error yeah fair amount of error
so we got there and
and what was it like being in high
school can you tell me a little bit
about that
uh high school i would literally just
stay up all night
i was i was like a decent student i was
in like honors classes and all that
mess um but like
yeah i was gifted but not using it so i
would like when i was in school i would
literally
be asleep like 75 of the time so i would
just stay up all night and like play
games
and uh
[Music]
yeah and then then i just came to a
point where like i said like my parents
are at work all the time
like they would like are you gonna go on
the bus or like your friend would pick
you up for school
and then one day i just like just
stopped going and i just
like i'm feeling going to school anymore
i just stopped going to school
and uh that was like my senior year i
just like stopped going and then they
said like all right you know you failed
you failed you failed high school uh you
get to like take this year over again
and then i just
said screw it i just got my ged and then
started doing the community college and
all that
do you remember how you felt in senior
year of high school
uh that was when i was playing world of
warcraft and so i was
just addicted itself like i was
you know i just that's all i wanted to
do um
that's like the only thing that mattered
me i was like real lost in the sauce
okay so i i remember like i was dating
this girl at the time
and this is when the game just came out
i was like hey i'm like the first level
whatever hunter
50 hunter on my server you know and i
didn't talk to her or see her for like
two weeks straight i was like so lost in
the sauce
she's just like oh that's nice like i
think we need to break up
i was like what yeah
so uh yeah it's just like
i just became like super lost in the
sauce um
and then i let like all my like real
world like uh
like i had a small group of friends but
the friends just became like people that
i just played the games with you know so
like all my real world relationships
like suffered like heavily because of it
yeah so i'm curious during that time
when you were lost in the sauces you put
it were you
overwhelmed by thoughts of the future
and past
when you stepped out of the sauce
oh definitely like i didn't i definitely
wasn't enjoying school
and i didn't know like future wise what
i wanted to do i had like
you know like that's like when the time
when people like well i'm gonna go major
in this and
gonna become this and that and it's like
i don't know what the hell i want to do
you know
and obviously i can't have that
conversation with my parents
because they're just like mia so
it's just like well i'm just not gonna
deal with this i'm gonna go
braid blackwing layer yeah so like
that's like that's just like basically
like what was going on
so those dragons ain't gonna farm
themselves you know what i'm saying
exactly man yeah exactly
ragnaros isn't gonna isn't gonna
down himself you have to do it you gotta
pay the bills on
azeroth yeah um
so just kind of thinking about it a
little bit
i'm wondering uh brandon if like so
sometimes like you know when we think
about
kid who's not going to class at all
skipping classes like sure there's a
certain amount of world of warcraft
escapism but
you know the word depression pops into
my mind when i hear about that situation
what do you think about that word
i'm gonna say i was sad but it's like
you were sad or you weren't sad
i the only thing that bothered me in
like that sense was that
uh well it's like we talked i talked
about earlier like
i've had a very difficult time with
empathy so if i did have a real world
friendship
and i didn't understand how to have the
friendship in the sense of like
getting the value out of it that like
you should have from like a real
friendship
like because i didn't understand like
the value behind like the shared
experiences
um caring about the other person like
deeply you know
like their their well-being all that
kind of stuff and it's like uh
so because i didn't i didn't have that
um emotional and mental capacity at the
time
it kind of like made those type of
friendships like devoid of meaning for
me
and that's like i don't want to say i
was sad about it but it's like
i felt like definitely something was
missing there you know so you did feel
like something was missing
yes yes and then so like because that
thing is missing
uh i would go like play wow and then
it's like my value becomes like oh
you're really good at doing dps in this
rage so i wanna you know like i wanna
have this person around or like
or like that person's funny you know
like that's how i'm creating
yeah i'm creating value to the people
like in that way you know
so it's it's a silly thing but yeah
i don't think it's very silly at all
well the whole situation is definitely
silly
what's silly about the situation uh
it's just like the way that you can the
way that i was like talking to another
friend about this
uh recently and it's like he said he
picked up all these uh
hobbies and like skill sets because he
thought
that like that's how he would he'd be
useful to people like they want him
around you know
and it's like uh and he said he says he
like still like carries that to this day
but it's like it detracts from like his
real relationships with people
because it's like in the back of his
mind it's like oh this person maybe
wants me because like i'm good at music
or like
i can fix this thing and he's like he's
that's always something in the back of
his mind
yeah so that's another one of those
statements that i think you say to mean
one thing but i'm in hearing a different
interpretation
what do you do the acquisition of real
life skills makes potentially your
relationships based on
shallowness and what you can bring to
the other person well no like that's
what he's telling himself but he
it's not actually true okay okay yeah
it's not actually true
but like that's how he feels yeah yeah
and whereas
in your case i mean i i i don't think
that i didn't think that was silly at
all because in your case
what i'm hearing is a you know kid who
doesn't have value in the real world
and you get to be someone that people
want to be around and who care about you
and want you to show up every day
because like you know when you don't go
to class for a week
like what do the teachers do
uh i mean when i was did y'all had to
sleep so they just like left me a lot
right so like when
when you did not hold up to your
responsibilities
who cared exactly
nobody cared and then it in wow
when you miss click and
you know i don't know what hunters do
that could wipe a raid but
you know when you don't pull properly or
whatever like
they care right like people care
either in a good way or a bad way but
i'm hearing that you were like
i could see that your presence was noted
in some way
yes whereas like if when you went to
school like you might
i mean they might as well been robots
like for as much as people seem to
notice
or give a [ __ ] yes
i can definitely see what you're talking
about did you act out at all
uh when i was in middle school in
elementary school
like when the divorce and stuff was
first happening i was like
very class clown kind of just always
just saying random stuff
and trying to make people laugh like
that was like my value that i
that's why i like mentioned value before
is like i i kind of mentally noted that
as like
it's like why did i do that it's like
because i'm looking for a way of giving
value to people
right and like that's the way that like
that basically became like the
interaction it's like i'd make people
laugh
so it's like that was like my purpose i
don't know but then
yeah it's like once i got into games i'm
like sleeping all the time so i can't
even do that
yeah but yeah and so what about the ice
beside an
interview kind of like resonated with
you
it's a class clown thing and then like
he was talking about how you like
asperger's and stuff and like
just a lot of the is this
i mean i've like read up on this type of
stuff before like i i genuinely think
that like
most professional gamers are have been
are on the spectrum in some way
like in the sense of like the way that
like obsessive
behavior like and uh and a lot of them
have like empathy issues
a lot of them a lot of like them like
social cues
like social skills really hard and like
this
all can develop in like some way shape
or form right so
it's definitely something i've like i
like i've noted of myself and like other
people i've interacted with
like throughout the years and it's and
it's like something
i don't know if it's like learned
behavior it's like i missed out on the
ability to learn about this stuff from
like previous
points in my life or it's because it's
something i was born with
but it's definitely like something i've
had to like adjust and deal with
um and yeah and that's like
i guess like the parallels that like
that was like pulling from that sure
yeah so you know my take on that it's
something i think about a lot i've also
worked with a fair number of pro gamers
um you know my money's actually more on
the learned behavior part
so while it's possible that like you
know all the pro gamers out there are on
the autism spectrum
or a fair number of them i i think that
especially with
so the
confusion around empathy and building
social
relationships that symptom
has multiple diagnoses that can lead to
it
yes being on the spectrum is one of them
but i think that like i know for myself
like i
i don't know i mean i certainly wasn't
very empathic as a
you know like in high school and stuff
and i was [ __ ] confused when it came
to college
like i didn't know how to talk to a girl
i didn't really know how to make friends
like my friends in high school like the
reason i made friends with them is
because none of us knew how to make
friends with anyone else
yeah right that's what i mentioned it's
like i don't know if it's like a learn b
yep it might in both of our instances it
could be learned behavior
it could be something like in my case
i'm like born with but it could be like
a mixture of both like
absolutely so i think that there's
there's enough consistency
and if you look at the statistics around
like how common autism is
or some being on the autism spectrum you
know i'd guess that
this is a pattern that is so autism is
in the minority of the population
[Music]
playing video games is now in the
majority of population
and having social difficulties and
difficulty with empathy is also
in the majority of gamers yeah so just
looking at that
at that statistically it makes me lean
towards
things like um
so like you know i
like let me just share like an a theory
that i have for lack of a
better i i'm just gonna toss this out
hopefully it'll illustrate the point is
that okay
yeah go for it so when we form online
relationships
so like like i guess this is why gamers
are socially anxious okay
so when we form online relationships we
tend to form
like there are parts of our brain that
govern like empathy
and like you know understanding social
cues and things like that
that actually like get rusty because
when i
talk to you on discord like i don't see
your face i don't understand your body
language
i get a little bit of tone so i spend a
lot of time playing video games
and there's also like a set of
um things in the game
that make me know whether i'm valued or
not
right like if i'm crushing mid like i
know that people are gonna like me
right like it's it's it's easy like i
understand
what my value is in this given situation
i also don't have to deal with like
facial expressions and stuff like that
also games tend to be like really really
logical so what happens is like
when i interact with people online it
seems to be easier because my brain sort
of knows how to do that
and then what happens when gamers go and
like they interact with real people
is like something weird happens so
generally speaking the regular humans
automatically
their brain interprets things like body
language and tone
and like other kinds of things that
reassure
the regular human the problem with the
gamer is that all of those circuits have
been like
turned off for a while so we are not
able to be reassured
by like the signals that are like other
human brains are able to be reassured by
and so what we do in our minds is fill
it in with logical processing
so then it becomes a problem to be
solved and we're like hyper analyzing
every interaction so since the emotional
part of our brain is not able to like
interpret a signal of like you know if
someone
you know like invites me like we just
can't process all of these like
empathic signals so instead what we do
is we become hyper anxious which is like
overly logical
reasoning into all of these different
random things
and the problem is that you know logical
processing is just not a good way to
interpret bodily signals
it's like how you get into all this kind
of you know weird like
dating pickup artist like if the girl
does this it means it's like all this
it's it's a logical construction that's
a substitute
for a far better empathic circuit that
is like
rusty what do you think about that
i can agree with that and uh
i i definitely understand where coming
from and i'll just like
i'll i guess i'll like exp to talk about
experience so yeah i'd love to hear that
okay so we had uh like one of our teams
like counter logic gaming
you know we're the or the turbo sweaty
nerds and uh
we ended up going off to korea to like
play in this turn
this a couple month long tournament so
we're all living together
right and so we're living together for
months
and it's like these there's like major
issues of like
fighting all the time like and that's
like why i bring up like the social cue
thing is it's not just like
restricted to like online but it's like
when we are in in in person it's like
literally we like can't even like
process each other you know it's like
we're just a bunch of like
malfunctioning robots
like yeah so it's
it's like i feel like it probably does
talk a lot
about like what you're saying where it's
like our
we've been online so long and like we've
had those relationship online and we
know how to interact online
now like once we're in person and
there's like the
the cues and stuff like the facial
expressions the
body language all that kind of stuff
like that's like out the window right
and
yeah and then i remember like at the end
of the trip like after we got done with
the tournament
one of the like the players on the team
they're like what we need to do now is
like we need to go back and get a gaming
house and live with each other it's like
no yeah
so it's like yeah like after all that
kind of stuff
so it's just i mean and then i've seen
it like i've you know coached teams and
been around teens for a long time you
see like all these other gamers like
living with each other
and i feel like a lot of them like can't
process like
dealing with each other in any or like
any situation
and it's like i don't know i just like
seeing it too much you know
yeah so it's interesting because i i've
seen a lot of it too it's it's amazing
how much
how long of a way a little bit of
instruction goes
so there's data that supports so like
they did a good
a trial on i think like 12 000 students
from grade 1 to 12 maybe
what what yeah you seem like you're
thinking something funny
no i just glanced over a chat and
somebody's like nopers
so so there there's data that shows that
if you take
i think they did a trial where they took
12 000 students and 6 000 of the
students were taught
social and emotional skills training as
a class
like in addition to history and
mathematics and things like that the
interesting thing is that if you teach
people how to like interact with each
other
it's worth one letter grade
so their gpa actually goes up by
1.1 points like
this is something that would never
happen in america right is this class
this is a
trial that was done in america i think
it was done in america oh okay okay
this doesn't sound like america it
doesn't sound like america but it
i i think the trump show is in america
i'd have to find the reference again but
i think it was
done here um maybe europe but it's
interesting because when i you know when
i work with esports teams it's like well
we'll like spend some time like learning
how to communicate and boy does it help
um you know the the sample size is still
relatively small but i would love to do
a study that actually the problem is
that there's so much variability in
performance
you know in terms of like tournament
placement there are so many factors that
it's hard to say that this is
responsible for an improvement
but well a lot of a lot of teams have
like mental coaches and
like psychologists and a lot of a lot of
people that are like do it it's
definitely come a long way since like
when i was
playing so it's definitely it's there
people know about it so
yeah and it's it's it's crazy to see
like how
far a little bit of education goes and
like
processing and and teaching people like
how to communicate
and recognize each other's like issues
how it really brings a team together
it's it's been interesting to
see that but um
yeah so it sounds like you were can you
tell me a little bit about the the navy
and how you decided to do that
uh well i was going to community college
at the time
all my friends had like moved off to
like go to state school
um and so i like didn't have any friends
at the time like in the area and like
all they only able to hang out with
those like online playing games
and i was gonna like do the two years
and then go to like state school like do
like transfer program
um and i was just like really cause it
just felt like
high school to sequel you know where
it's like i gotta go and i gotta do
these stupid classes
and then i'd like just play games all
night and
it's literally just like i'm just
carrying out the same experience except
this time i don't have my irl friends
to like help me deal with it you know so
one day i just like saw a pamphlet
when i was like walking out of class and
yeah they got me man the brainwashing
yeah and i just like i was like all
right i want to change my life
dramatically i'm like so i just got to
get out of here right
and i just told my my mom like i'm going
to go i signed up for the navy like i'm
i'm going to leave in a month and i
just went off the boot camp and had it
it was definitely
uh well i mean i wasn't going i wasn't
like being in the army of marines i'm
not like going off like shoot people
like my job was
you know i was more the technical side
so she was like at first she was like
now i can explain to her like this is
what i'm going to be doing and she's
like okay
like just be careful you know like that
kind of thing
so um yeah then i went off in the
military
which is definitely an interesting
experience like
there's a lot of crazy people in the
military in like some way shape or form
uh and it's you definitely experience
like people from all walks of life
and you're like kind of forced into this
like jumbled mess together
and yeah and i got to travel a lot
which is a good experience you know i
got to like experience a lot of
different cultures
and a lot of life experiences um
but it was definitely extremely
stressful it was probably like
most stressful experience of my life
just what was stressful what was
stressful about it
you have no okay let's say
i'm like hey you need to go here
tomorrow or whatever
it's like you can't say no like you need
to do this you can't say no
so like basically no matter what you
have to do like whatever's happening or
going on or what's saying
but you have no control over your life
does that make sense
um so it's like you're at the whim of
other people
and the military doesn't have a lot of
smart people
are there smart people in there there's
a lot of people in the military that
are just in there in their position
because of time they're like well i've
been in here for a lot of years
and it's like oh no this guy's in charge
of me in its way
yeah like that kind of stuff so wow it's
just
yeah it's it's a zoo for sure
um and then it's all the normal stuff
like you have to like train for
like combat and like yeah
the one thing in the navy you get like
gas chambered
whatever you like get you get tear gas
and
like all a bunch of stuff like that like
and then boot camp is really stressful
um stressful you know it's not a word
that i usually hear
used to describe boot camp like
mental turmoil like what what what can
you help me understand that what was
what's the turmoil in boot camp like
i've heard it's hard but
usually when i think like stress i think
like paying bills at the end of the
month or
maybe i'm going to get kicked out of
college or like i think about stress
yeah go ahead so when you [ __ ] up they
do what's called beating you
where they just like work you out into
the ground to where it's like
literally the only way that those that
you they'll stop you from working out
is you get carried away in an ambulance
and then you get charged for the
ambulance
or something like that yeah that's like
so like yeah like and it's like i don't
want to have that happen it could be
they'd like beat you over like random
stuff like this button isn't button
this many centimeters to like this
degree
all right we're going to beat you for
three hours it's like no
it's like some stuff that does sound
quite traumatic
yeah yeah yeah yeah so and you can't say
no
like you have to do it or also like
discharge you it's just like it's just
random stuff like that and then
uh i don't know yeah so that's like on
top of like the the training you're
going through already
so yeah so it sounds like no control
over your life and getting like
arbitrarily punished
yeah but that sounds like they call it
like breaking people down so they can
build them back up it's like all right
you broke everyone down like pretty good
here yeah
and did that prepare you yeah go ahead
you ever seen the movie full metal
jacket
uh yeah i think that many many years ago
i don't really remember
much about it but it's just like
collectively like everyone like beating
it's just like beating people down until
they're like
and some people don't deal with it like
very well so yeah that kind of thing
anyways going on
no what does that mean some people don't
deal with it well what what are they
well the guy
the guy in the movie ends up committing
suicide so like
the military has like an enormous like
that more people die of suicide in the
military than
combat or anything like that or of
anything else like the suicide rate is
insanely high like i've known like so
many people to commit suicide in the
military
and like that's something you have to
deal with too it's like these guys can't
deal with it and they're like
checking out like these are people like
that are like on my ship with me like
they're
like how am i like how am i dealing with
this you know it's like
oh my god yeah yeah so
you're dealing with like statistic is
actually true that more people in the
military die of suicide than combat
i'm pretty sure that's still true like a
non and not during non-combat times
is definitely true so like literally
every other week we'd have like some
suicide prevention training or some like
talk about
yeah it was just like always like being
talked about
so did it help
well in the military it's like you're
basically
just it's like one of those things like
you have to go to this class like it's
just another thing you have to do
you know what i mean and and the people
that are instructing it
are like it's like i said the people
that are in charge of you are
probably not the smartest people or like
emotionally developed people
so you have like bubba gump senior
lpo whatever like all right guys now you
think about
killing yourself no all right you know
we're gonna sit in this class for an
hour now like
it's like yeah it's just like people
people that are not qualified to be
talking about this stuff like trying to
help you deal with this stuff you know
you know it's it's funny i'm noticing an
interesting connection so
on wednesday we actually had the mods
from live stream fails
yeah kind of talking about reddit's
like mental health support dm
bot oh god that's pretty much yeah that
was that was what was going on
so i'm hearing like this theme like i
didn't think that you know there'd be
anything relating to your interview in
in their interview that would be
connected and the thing that connects it
is like
it seems like there are a lot of
organizations out there that check a box
in terms of oh this is a problem let's
do something
let's do something that allows us to say
that we're doing something about the
problem
exactly that's pretty much what's going
down and instead of doing
something yeah it's like did you fill
out the pamphlet
that detect that i didn't it's like you
don't want to kill yourself it's like
all right nice
work here is done yes
like yeah it's interesting i worked at a
prison
that had a very interesting approach to
suicide prevention
they punished people for being suicidal
so
if you kind of get evaluated and you're
suicidal
they essentially put you in solitary
confinement
with like paper clothing they give you
like a paper gown so you can't like hang
yourself
there's no [ __ ] way you can hang
yourself because there's one person
watching like six cells
and and so they just like stick people
in there and then they get like
periodically evaluated
and as long as they were better
afterwards right they got yeah yep
yep and i was the one doing the
evaluations so
it was like are you are you not suicidal
or do you want to stay another day by
yourself with no tv
nothing to do 24 hours of solitary
confinement for your own safety
and it was it was terrifying but also
eye-opening this is america
yeah i i i don't even know how much i
like
as much as we bash america like things
are actually
pretty good here compared to most places
in the world
i'll agree i agree but we still got some
weird problems
yeah um yeah so brandon how you feeling
about this conversation because i'm kind
of noticing like i'm
really enjoying hearing like your
experiences and stuff but
i i just want to check in with you about
you know whether this is a good use of
our time or you wanted to talk about
something else or
i feel good and i mean my main purpose
on coming onto the show is like
obviously i wanted to talk about some of
my things and
i've never done therapy before or
anything like that like in the
traditional sense
um so like and i know this isn't like
therapy but it's like talking to
somebody that does therapy
and it's like i feel like i've been
i've been through a lot of stuff and
i've like messed my life up in a lot of
ways
and i learned from it and i hope to like
share that with people and like help
other people in that sense
yeah that's really awesome not that you
messed your life up but that you're
trying to
that's the last thing right and
out of curiosity anything keep you from
doing therapy or
trying it or uh
no i just uh i like
tinkering with the cogs myself i guess i
don't know
and i've done it in like a bunch of
different ways like
obviously like the ways we're talking
about earlier like psychedelics and
uh that kind of stuff too and it should
i feel like that
that has that actually helped me a lot
like so
it's like that's working for me so it's
like i'm just gonna keep going with that
and like i'm gonna mentally i feel like
i'm in a good place right now
sure yeah
and um so did you want to talk about
like focus
or or like you know how your mind works
yeah well i mean the the focus thing
kind of like goes with the
i guess like when i first started uh
being a pro gamer
like i could get in this like hyper
focused state right
and like i'd be like dialed in
and then i think like over the years
it's like i was like drinking and like
smoking and all that kind of stuff it's
like
i would like have like a blip like my
brain would like randomly like lag
like a computer you know i would like
and i would just i would jump out of
that hyper focus state
and it'd be like in a game and i just
like randomly run it down you know i
just like
die in the game just and it could be
like anything and then i find him
and then eventually i found like myself
having like those moments in like real
life where it's like
i'd be focused in on something and then
it's like my brain lags
and it's like it just i don't know it's
like when your computer lies or like you
get like pink spike
it's like almost that same experience so
yeah i'm not sure really it's just
and i i don't know and obviously i've
like read about it and like talked about
or
talked to people about us like and it's
always like because like you need to
practice mindfulness or like
um like be in the moment more to like
yeah it's because it's like that lag is
like your brain trying to get it
something else like subconsciously right
or like moving into like another
is it i don't know well i think i think
it is it's like
it could be like something random like
uh
like i'm focused in on the game or like
this conversation i have somebody and
then my brain
could like random subconsciously try to
go off into something
of like the past or the future or like
something that's like
in the back of my mind you know like i'm
i could be worried about or
anything like at least that's my
understanding like what's going on
it's just in terms of what breaks your
hyper-focused state
yeah it's well i know it's like hard for
me to focus anymore like that
but it's it's like yeah it's like
something is put like snapping me out of
it you know like right
i like lose that focus and i can't
and i feel like it's like been
deteriorating over time you know
that's how you know like well it's
not in like uh well you know like people
say that
uh dis gamers 22 he's passed his prime
for being a pro gamer you know like that
kind of thing
i think that it's not that um
you know they're like your fingers don't
work anymore all that kind of stuff and
like as a player ages
i don't think it has anything to do with
that it's more like i think
all like high level gamers i can like
reach that focus state right
and i think a lot of that has to do with
in their earlier age like their number
one main priority like the things
they're thinking about and all they care
about is like that game right
and it's like as you go through life
more
things like you start to care about more
things than the game
like the other things start like to come
into the picture right
and i think that it's your brain like
subconsciously
like thinking about those other things
that like pulls you out of that state
and i feel like that's why like a lot of
pro gamers like get bad
or get worse as as they get older it has
nothing to do with like
hands or like ability or anything like
that it's that
it's that focus level and like i i see
you know a lot of people
um that are like older and insane but
it's like i see that
same i see what they it's not that same
focus level
you know they can still like dial it in
like that's why they're like able to
like keep doing it
interesting can i just think about that
for a second
yeah go for it
so you're saying that as the scope of
your life expands
your mind is less able to focus on video
games
because it's not like monolithic it's
not one-dimensional
so your mind has others
and i don't think that's the same for
everybody but i feel like that's what
started happening to me
and i've seen definitely seen it happen
like with a lot of like other
like people in the scene that ended up
retiring or like falling off
it's like their brain is like pulling
them away
like they could be worried about like
school or
not that's cool like job kind of stuff
or like relationship
or you know any of the normal like life
stuff and it's like those things instead
of just
before they were like way like in the
back it's like
and then the game is like way up here
like as far as like value and meaning
and it's and then they eventually start
to come up so
i mean we do have a good understanding
of like how to attain that hyper-focused
state from like a
neuroscience and and level like
um it'd be really interesting to look
into the mechanisms of why
professional gamers are young um i think
league of legends and
and dota uh are
good examples dota especially is like a
good example of like
the top tier teams all like tend to have
like old captains like way older than
most esports
dota i i don't know too much about like
what would you say is the average
lifespan of a league of legends player
like a professional no like three to
four year stops
and maybe like five to six they're like
super elite
yeah so i think dota feels longer than
that
so if you look at some top i mean the
average may actually be closer to like
two to four years but
there are a lot of like professional
dota players that have been playing some
form of moba competitively for like
yeah well that also has to do with
player population so like as the game
has like a larger
player population there's more people
that can come and buy for that spot
yeah interesting it becomes like far
more competitive so like you know
i'm sure like you're aware of like
everybody prefers like
uh western games gaming to like eat you
know
korea try and all that and you look at
their rank populations
they're like far they're you know two to
three like wait even like more
more than that like times the population
so as there's like a larger population
to like buy for your spot
like the bar gets raised like you know
it keeps getting raised
and dota dota has like i think it's like
the same like community still playing
the game yeah like obviously there's
like some
new players that trickle in but it's
like that new player has to
fight against like multiple years of
experience to like
break in right and dota is a very
complex game too
so it's like you have to learn all that
cumulative knowledge
and then you also have to like catch up
and then progress like beyond that
person right
yeah so and the same can be set for like
traditional sports too
so so yeah so i mean and i'm i'm hearing
you say that like
you think that a lot of your hyper focus
has gotten
harder as you've started to care about
other things
yes definitely i i definitely can't hang
in like league or any of those games
anymore
and what keeps you from hanging the
inability to gain hyper
focus yeah like being that like
before i could like dial myself in i
could
i could play for like 20 hours straight
like in
i would be like in i'd be like in the
zone the whole time
you know and uh i talked to like some
other doctors about this like for some
like summit like a while ago
and they were talking kind of like about
the difference you know like a
traditional sport
i can't click a button at two o'clock in
the morning and get into a game of like
nfl football you know all the other
players right
but a game like a video game i can click
a button at two o'clock in the morning
and i can be at people end of like a
full-fledged game with people relative
to my skill
and like any time i want right so
you have limitless amount of like
training time and the only thing holding
you back
is your ability to be focused in that
training time
so that's like that's what your com
that's what you're
fighting against and there's people that
will like keep pushing that boundary
like keep pushing it
yeah so that that's where i totally i've
gotten that as well i
so i trained at a place that had this
you know the
the sports psychologists and
psychiatrists for
the new england patriots and the boston
red sox
so it was interesting to it was a good
professional opportunity to be able to
work with those folks and
and talk to them about what their
experience of working with these like
you know top tier sports organizations
are
definitely there you know one of the
interesting things that came up was this
idea that like you can
only practice football for like
four hours a day yeah there's physical
yeah there's like a physical limitation
that there's clearly a diminishing
return
after like four hours of practice a day
let's say
and and so you know sports organizations
will do all kinds of things like hot
tubs and
and these magnetic machines and massages
and stuff like that
to try to get their players to like
practice for four and a half hours right
because if you can like heal the body a
little bit faster it gives you power up
yes and but in esports like i still
remember
one of my earliest engagements which i
guess is still under nda
is with a particular sport that i was
actually working for the company that
runs the sp that owns the game and and
talking to their
um so they had like an event where
a lot of their all their teams were
basically there
and so i was there and talking to the
coaches and it was interesting to hear
that they were saying like yeah like you
know we can
there's no physical limitation to the to
how much you play
now the interesting thing that we kind
of got into was
whether eight hours of playing pubs or
12 hours of playing pubs
i like whether those extra four hours of
playing pubs
actually does anything to improve your
skill just goes back to focus
like if it's focus practice it'll do
something but
like that's something that's the when
you notice like a true super elite
game like person in gaming it's the
focus thing every time
like you're like bjergsen you had him on
the show right like he is like
focused all the time when he's playing
like
it's like there's a difference between
just i'm gonna queue up 20 hours in a
row and just like
autopilot and like that's what a lot of
people do right that's the difference
between like the real elite
and the and it's being able to reach
that
and it it's like i felt it's like
there's a point where i could reach that
before
i just can't do it anymore and it's like
i felt it just slipped away from me
and it's like yeah
how do you feel about that uh
it was definitely difficult to deal with
at the time because it's like i was
really good at
and this is like on top of all the stuff
we talked about before it's like my
value was that i was really good at this
game right
and then i was in the i got thrown into
like the limelight and all that and
uh you know i i was like streaming like
i was like
people like light you know liked me and
all that um same thing like any of these
other like streamers deal with
and it's like then i feel my ability
like slipping right
i'm like my ability to be focused and
it's like i feel like my value is
slipping
you know and like this is before like i
had built like all
like the deal with like the empathy all
that kind of stuff so it's like
it was definitely very tough for me to
deal with at the time how did you deal
with it
not very well do you remember what
what kind of thoughts you would have in
your head
i was just like very unstable like both
emotionally and like
mentally so like the stress is also
kicking in too right you have like the
stress on top of like
not knowing what cause like you're like
all in like if you
if you're gonna be like a pro gamer
you're all in right you have to you
commit to it fully
so it's like i'm dealing with the stress
from that where it's like
[ __ ] do i i'm gonna go back to school
like what am i gonna do like all the you
know that kind of stuff and then it's
like
also you've alienated a lot of like your
relationships that you've had like both
like friendship
significant otherwise to like put this
game as a priority right
and so it's like the thing that you put
is like your priority is like slipping
like you're you're like not able to like
do it
you know so it's like very tough to like
come to terms with
so yeah do you remember what kind of
thoughts you would have
um just stress like more so like well
like what am i going to do like how can
i fix this
uh that's why i started reading about
like you know
sports performance psychology all that
that's like when i started getting to
that like philosophy
it's like i'm gonna do like anything i
can to like try to like get this state
back but it's like
like nothing i could do like a give me
back and i think it's just because i
like lost
that like obsession with the game you
know and instead of doing it
because i like really really enjoyed it
i was doing it just because like
this is my habit i'm like playing this
game because like this is and it's the
same as like anything i did like
drinking smoking
all it's like i'm doing this and trying
to keep doing this
because like this is what i do you know
yeah i'm also hearing
so i think what also shatters the focus
as he used to do it
out of potentially passion for the game
yeah i love the game
and and what i'm hearing is that you
started doing it
to hold on as opposed to love for the
game exactly
it's a job it becomes a joke i mean it
comes to draw for everybody like that
gets into pro
well i think i think it's the attachment
to like holding on that i think actually
negatively impacts the focus and may
create a vicious cycle
that the longer the the more you try to
hold on the harder it becomes to like
enter the flow state of mind of like
hyper focus
because you're trying to like grab
something from the past
and as we started off with you know
being in the present
is better i think and when you're hyper
focused i'd assume that you'd call that
a present focused state like you're in
the present
at that time yeah
flow state yeah that's like an
interesting thing to read about too it's
like
everybody's like trying to reach the
flow state yeah so i i think that's that
also is where like
you know it's interesting you were
saying that there are the more things
that you care about
or the wider the scope of your your life
the harder it is to get into the state
of hyper focus so it's been my
experience that
sometimes when i work with a team
there's like
emotional bad blood that needs to be
worked through
and like occupies like your subconscious
ram
and like the more that your subconscious
ram it's like all this
like all these process old processes
from tournaments long past that are just
like minimized
into this tray and that as you work
through that stuff and you start closing
down those processes you kind of
apologize forgive or even own that i
will never forgive you for this
interestingly enough they start to play
better the focus starts to return
yeah and you don't necessarily have to
have a happy ending but you do
have to do some amount of emotional
processing and like close all that
crap that you've got minimized
yeah and when i played there was like no
coaches
there was like nobody supporting you in
that stuff so it's like
it's like well go deal with yourself
this is definitely tough yeah go deal
with it yourself sounds like the story
of your life brandon
fun times that's really good though
yeah no it's it's interesting right
because that's like
you know i'm hearing that that's what
happened growing up i'm hearing that's
what happened in the military i'm
hearing
you know that's what happened when you
were a professional wall player
and i'm hearing that maybe the reason
you're happy is because you're not
dealing with it with
yourself anymore uh
well no i'm silly yeah like uh
oh i'm happy because i'm not dealing
with myself yeah yeah yeah sharing
experiences like yeah
yeah yeah yeah yeah i mean we haven't
really talked about what that means but
i've noticed use the phrase sharing
experiences many times
and what i'm doing is like make i'm
equating those two things that there's
there's brandon that
did it himself and had to do it himself
which i think it's reasonable for you to
have some degree of
sadness towards regret about
feels bad man sad yeah
you know and then there's brandon who
now
is is it solo queuing anymore not so
like you anymore we're in the flex queue
what does flex q mean uh it's this like
pretty much just like you could team up
with your friends and like me
yeah yeah
any questions for me right
no i'm good i'm fine i think i talked
about a lot of stuff i want to talk
about i mean there's like a bunch of
stuff i could go into but
quite a long time so it's fine yeah i
mean i i sort of try to
you know we usually do this for about
two hours at a stretch like somewhere
around there
um no this is good yeah i appreciate it
uh
and you know if you have questions or
things that you want to talk about we
still have time it's just
you know i want to be call attention you
know just be aware of like
what this you know how how long is this
game of law going to last
yeah yeah um hmm
let's talk about i mean i i still feel
like a lot of these things like carry
over into like my
like i say i'm good now but like it's
not a lot of these things like carry
over and it's like still
things like i'm like constantly
tinkering with and like like what
uh just like relationships with people
or like
uh like like
like friendships like it's still like
because of like my past experiences the
concept of like what a friendship is is
still like even to this day something
i'm like figuring
out you know what i mean and i'm like
i'm a grown man you know and it's like
i'm still figuring that out to this day
you know can you give me an example of
what you're what you're figuring out or
a situation in which it's clear that you
haven't figured everything out yet
[Music]
ah how to explain it it's like i feel
like
uh i feel like uh
even my close friendships are like at an
arm's length
you know i'm not ex it's really
explained
that it's like uh i think it's more
like to do with like how people are in
like
modern times like i don't say modern
times but like
uh i'm
i'm really having a hard time like it's
yep so i feel like
brandon here's the here's the problem
i think you're trying to piece it
together so you're speaking in
abstractions
and my instinct is that if you want to
understand this better
stop speaking in abstractions because
yeah i'm trying to find like an exact
like instance it's more so like i feel
like my friendship should be closer than
they are
okay good that's a good statement well
like with the amount of effort i put in
but i don't think i don't actually don't
put that much effort in actually i'm
lazy
yeah so it's like i i would like to have
like closer friendships with people but
i feel like it's like
i'm so used to being by myself you know
that it's like difficult for me to
to match like people's effort and uh
yeah you know so we're gonna we're gonna
try to speed run this okay
okay so i think there's a lot of value
here i think it's really important to
talk about i don't want to leave the
conversation without giving it a shot
okay go for it all right so the first
thing is
so you feel like your relationships are
closer than they should
should be closer than they are that even
the people you consider close friends
you kind of keep at arm's length yes
so when i say that to you i'm seeing
emotion in your face
yes yes okay so
what what am i saying that's triggering
something in you
um what's up basically uh i'll just like
summarize that community
basically i'm so used to being alone in
my life and like on my own doing my own
thing
like figuring out my own [ __ ] that even
when i do have people in my life
that like want to share experiences
i can't even like process it you know
because i'm like
this doesn't make sense like in my mind
it's like
i'm too used to being on my own you know
um
so like i can't like i can't like
process like that friendship
what does that mean you can't process
that friendship
it's like there could be a moment where
i'm supposed to be close to that person
and i still like i feel like it's like
alien you know it's like i shouldn't
it's like i feel like i shouldn't be
feeling this
you know what should you be feeling or
what are you feeling that you shouldn't
be feeling
or it's like i feel like i should be
closer with them
like in those moments you know i feel
like i should be feeling closer
but it's like i'm so used to being alone
like feeling alone
and like dealing with [ __ ] on my own
that
i don't know how to like mentally
and like emotionally like go through
that with that person to like connect
that moment
you know it's like uh
i didn't read the i didn't read like
friendships for dummies you know
so i read that book i'm hearing that you
don't know how to be a friend
yes i feel like i don't
i see like other people's friendships
and it's like i feel like
what's like oh i should i should like i
feel like like the way they spend time
together all day like
i have a good friend group like don't
get me wrong i have a lot of friends
but it's like i don't feel like that
it's
at i don't feel like our interactions
are like at
uh it's like not a like i don't feel
like the closeness is there like as it
should be you know and i think it's like
my fault
you know okay
what makes you think it's your fault or
what's your fault in this
because um
i'm like my brain is like off in its own
world all the time
or like uh the social cue thing
are like i'm here still different you
feel difficult
yeah i feel deficient because just
because it's like
first 25 years of my life i'm like not
doing this right
so i want you to brandon you yes
learn how to stop doing this thing
sometimes i'll ask you a question
and you'll give me an answer and then
you'll give me an explanation
okay okay okay what we need is if you
want to make
progress here forget about everything
after the word because
okay do you understand what i'm saying
yes right so like when you feel a
particular way like if i ask you
do you feel deficient what does your
mind do
tries to explain my mind tries to
explain why i'm deficient
yeah like i try to come up with a
logical reasoning of it yep
right but that sort of doesn't
it's not that it doesn't matter it's
just that i don't think that that's
where
the work you need to do is yes
so i know this sounds kind of weird but
like
what is it like
why do you think that your mind does
that
the explaining yeah i mean that's just
who i am as a person like when i'm
playing a game i'm like trying to
logically figure it out right
yep or like do anything i'm like trying
to logically figure it out to come to a
conclusion
like i'm trying to beat the game yep and
these these friendships are a game
almost in the way it's like i'm trying
to beat the game of friendships
yep very well said it's who you are and
that's what needs to change
because you've been trying to beat the
game of friendships for a while so i
think we got to teach you a different
way
can i think for a second go for it
i'm glad you mentioned this by the way
what should your relationships be like
uh
i feel like uh hmm
i see like some friends have like
they're like literally like life
partners
like they want to experience life
together you know like that's the best
way to have life right
is you're just sharing life experiences
all the time right
in like a positive way negative way it
doesn't matter
and i feel like i miss out on a lot of
those experiences
how long have you felt lonely brandon uh
i don't wanna say
okay i don't wanna use the word lonely
cause like that's not the right
way to describe it but it's like
i think the deficiency is like the right
way to say it it's like i feel like
i'm at like a six or a five and like i
want to be at like a nine or ten
you know what i mean and
what made you a five or six instead of a
nine or a ten
um i feel like i'm playing ketchup
you know it's like you know when we
talked about the cumulative knowledge
thing with like the games
it's like i feel like i'm playing
catch-up in like the
human interaction thing why did i play
catch-up in the first place
because i
didn't have those experiences when i
just put myself on the computer and
pretty much like isolated myself for
like the first 20 years of my life
whose fault is it that you're playing
catch up
well i mean my own of course like i'm
the one who decided to do
that like i could like deflect and like
put them like oh my parents are like
you know this it it always comes back to
yourself like you're the ultimate
person responsible for yourself and like
your life like
so it's like i understand like what i
did and it's like
now we go back to like the mindset of i
need to beat the game so like i'm trying
to figure out
mentally how to like
you know tinker with my brain all the
stuff you talk about inner monologue all
that kind of junk
to like have better experiences with
people and like
create better experiences for them you
know
okay i think for a second go for it
[Music]
you know blaming yourself you got some
snot by the way yeah sorry yeah it's all
good i'm just
you know uh i'm gonna get it now kid
all right i'm back welcome back brendan
yeah so i'm gonna say something kind of
weird okay so i think you're good at
figuring things out
okay and so if you're stuck somewhere
i think that it's not a problem of like
not being able to solve the problem i
think you're trying to solve the wrong
problem it's a problem of misdiagnosis
and one of the hardest things to do
if you blame yourself and you try to fix
things one of the saddest things that i
routinely see is when people blame
themselves for something that's not
actually their fault so
they're never able to fix it because the
fault doesn't lie with you
and as long as you own the faults of
other people
like that's not something that can ever
be fixed
does that make sense yeah it makes sense
i understand what you're trying to say
so i i know it sounds kind of weird but
like the idea that you were
deficient the idea that it's all your
fault on the one hand is helpful
is adaptive right because if everything
is your fault
you have it within your your power to
fix it
yes and and so there's something
actually bizarrely comforting
about beating yourself up because then
like and i
honestly i see this in cases of like
abuse and neglect where like
people learn to think it's their fault
and i know it sounds kind of weird but
why does that happen so much it's
because
actually the alternative is like way
harder
like like dealing with a world where
you're in the situation that you're in
because you didn't not because of
something that you did wrong but
because other people did something wrong
is like a terrifying world to live in
there's so much uncertainty because if
you're not to blame then can you ever
fix it like i don't know
like taking away power from yourself in
that situation absolutely
and and this is the kind of thing where
i would be really careful
because i mean like sure you played a
bunch of video games but like
and and i know that like we sort of talk
about like holding on to resentment
is a bad thing but i think that you're
doing something really really bizarre
which is if you accept if you're not if
you accept more blame than what you're
responsible for
you're in a like an unsolvable situation
okay that makes sense right so i get
that you
feel deficient but i think you've got to
be careful about
the logical plan of action that you
build
rooted in an emotion that you are not
good enough
that you are deficient in some way
because like all of that thinking starts
from like that
emotional core
and i think the reason that you've made
progress and i'm sure you'll continue to
make progress i think you'll make
progress
faster if you understand like
like the reason you feel deficient
now we're speed running so you know you
know i may recommend a couple of other
things to you
at the top of the list is we're
releasing a guide on mental health which
i think there are one or two videos that
you should definitely watch
because your textbook um
but but it's kind of interesting because
like if you think about how long have
you felt deficient
i mean my whole life obviously like it's
yeah right all right yeah
so if you think about it that's
something that you carry with you
right it shapes like all of the way that
you look at the world
and if you want to form like healthy
relationships
like it's going to be really hard if you
don't believe that you're someone that's
form
worth forming a healthy relationship
with
like what keeps your friends at arm's
length
because you keep on saying i'm used to
being on my own like yeah i get you're
used to it but it's not what you want
i feel like part of me does want to be
on my own though you're right
why it's like comforting because it's
the normality
not just the normality it's like my
routine
so i think there's value to routine but
what would it be like
to not keep people at arm's length
what do you gain by keeping them at
arm's length
just the same thing so save the same
routine same
same thing don't get anything i think
you gain more than that
so i want you to think about a time
where you could get closer to someone
okay and you don't
why not um
i feel like we don't share the same
like uh i don't feel like the
feeling is shared so it's like i
i pull back you know
yeah so
let's think about that for a second
why do you have to pull back if the
feeling isn't shared
wouldn't you like some other people i
don't know have you smothered people
before
i've definitely experienced people
smothering me so it's like i don't want
them to experience that
as well you know when like somebody's
like
too pushy about like being in your life
or like
you know what i mean yeah and it's like
i just want to be on my own
or to do my own thing so you want to i
don't i don't
i don't want to put that burden on other
people yeah i'm going to use like uh
i'm going to use exaggerated terms okay
because we're speed running
okay so you don't want to you're it
almost sounds like you're protecting
them from yourself
yeah because it's like it's like it's
like the
i'm trying to i guess i'm just gonna say
it's like i'm logically trying to like
ah it's like i don't want yeah i'm yeah
i'm protecting it for myself because i
i don't like that experience sometimes
right it's like i don't want them to
have that experience
you know and what exactly are you
protecting them from
i don't want to like push myself into
life too much you know
or like i don't want to be like the
little eager kid with like a oh this is
like a little like a butterfly and then
swish it you know what i mean
yeah yeah and so how do you
how do you view yourself in that
interaction like what
what are you what are you insulating
them from
i just want to give them their space
like it's like
uh i didn't ask them i didn't ask what
you want to do for them i'm asking what
are you
what am i i'm just somebody that
i feel like i'm an intense person like
when i
just because of a lot of my experiences
throughout my life and
and i know i shouldn't be like just
because i know we talked about that but
good yeah it's but it's like that's
or it can be an intense person and it's
like i want
to i'm like trying to pull back from
that intensity you know
i understand i can be an intense person
okay
what do you mean by intense person
well it's because like before i didn't
feel any of these things
and it's like once i open the floodgate
it's like
i feel these things like i mean i'm
freaking crying on streams and stuff
right you know
like once i do feel something or like
something does happen
i feel like it's like magnified tenfold
so it's like it's very difficult for me
to
uh i don't want to say control it but
it's like
it can it can be overwhelming yeah
absolutely
and what's wrong with you being
overwhelmed when you're with someone
else i don't want them to be overwhelmed
by
this experience that like i can't even
control myself because like i'm not in
control of myself in that situation
yep so it's like i don't want to like
boil that over onto them you know
expose them to your nastiness yeah
they don't they don't deserve to deal
with this
overwhelming bundle of emotions that is
you
this busted kid who never learned how to
make friends and you don't want to show
that to them and
why should they have to deal with
someone who you know is such a
deficient human being yes
pretty much there you go you got it yep
so i'm gonna say something weird brandon
you're an arrogant prick yeah i've been
told that
yeah so here's the thing it's not your
place to control
their reactions you're taking the
decision away from them
that makes you arrogant and controlling
okay
right so like what you need to do is
like because like it's interesting right
because you're really controlling this
interaction
you're not giving them the choice to
accept you or reject you
you're making that choice for them and
as long as you make that choice for
them they're going to be at arm's length
yes
so like the reason like they're at arm's
length because you're
keeping them there if they get so this
is where i'd like venture like there are
times where it's not just about you
getting close to them
sometimes they come close to you and i
think you push them away
yes that does happen so i know it's
going to be terrifying
but i would let someone
let him have it let them have it
right give them the chance to be a
friend
because right now you're controlling it
you're not giving them the chance mm-hmm
it's like you can't have a friendship
that is like where one person has all
the power okay
what do you think about that
i can agree with it um
i don't want to give you a just because
but like also something that
goes into my mind with that is like
the scene we're in is like i don't want
to say very superficial but it's like
i feel like there are there are a lot of
superficial like relationships with
people
and like yep because
and there's a lot of friendships that
get created in this scene as well
like i it's just
i don't know it's very hard to tell like
genuine interactions you know
yeah so that that you know that's
something that
i think you should you should be very
careful about because
when it comes to like the streaming
world
friendship becomes a business yes
and i don't want it to become bad so
that that i can i can
you know i i can not only meet you
halfway i can meet you all the way
i'll come all the way over to your
concern there
but i i really do think brandon that
like if you want to feel connected to
someone
you know like like you see like it feels
to me like there's ugliness inside you
that
you don't want to burden other people
with
but as long as like you're not willing
to let them see who you are
like you're nev you're always going to
feel
that degree of distance and the whole
point i mean here you are crying in
front of thousands of people like
what what would you think i mean i know
this stream is a little bit of a
different place but like
when your mind considers situations like
this like what is it afraid of
i mean i'm not afraid to show my emotion
that
i'm never i'm never afraid of that like
i don't care okay okay like i don't
feel any insecurity with it it's more so
like
i just uh i guess
maybe i am afraid of like the
disingenuous
uh i see a lot of like disingenuous
oh i got a good way explaining it all my
previous friendships from before were
friendships that i was like it's like
so let's say i'm on a team with somebody
right it's like we're living together
i'm on a team
we're friends why are we friends because
we're just here living together it's
because of circumstance you know
or like i'm in the military it's like
we're here we're stuck with each other
now we're friends
i'm friends because i'm stuck there with
that person right and it's like
i almost have like that same mindset
it's like now i'm not stuck with people
right so it's like i've it's hard for me
to tell like what a genuine
non like i'm stuck here with you
friendship is or
sure yeah maybe that's maybe that's it i
don't know that's explained so well but
yeah it's like very difficult for me to
like i'm afraid of that like that
i'm stuck with you friendship i don't
want to have that you know
and it's like now i'm not stuck with
anybody i'm like trying to like
cultivate like real friendships and
relationships
and it's like it's just a very different
experience so
and it's i'm not trying to navigate that
yeah so i think there's a lot of
practical stuff there
and there's potentially a date like a
dangerous isn't the right word there's
like an interesting undercurrent there
so when i envision someone who views
themselves as deficient
and they have friends due to
circumstances
i could imagine like that blending
together
to where like the only reason these
people are my friends
is because we're all stuck on a boat
together the
only reason that these people are my
friends is because they're my teammates
because do you see how like the
circumstance plus your deficiency
could create like a hybrid kind of thing
yes i mean i understand what's going on
and it's like
yeah it's and because because i i i
think actually like i would even go as
far as to say that your conception that
the only re
you didn't use the word only but i think
that when your mind says the
you know the reason we're friends is
because we're stuck together that
implies to me that you don't acknowledge
that there's like a genuine value and
there's just circumstance it's karma
right but like when you think about
friends like that's how friends get made
like so friends are made through
repeated unplanned interactions and
common cause
yes but what i'm really hearing is like
i think that you know the next time you
have a good day or a bad
day or there's something that you think
that someone else
doesn't want to hear i think you should
try sharing it with them
all right what do you think about that
i try to do that but it's just like i
still hold back you know
yep so what do you hold back i just
don't talk about
i just stay off on my own like so a lot
of time i'll try to talk to people but
it's like yep so so what i'm talking
about is not what you already do it's
what you hold back yeah
i just don't do it as much as i should
like i don't say i'm lazy but it's like
i don't put the effort in that i should
and then no i i don't don't be
self-judgmental i'm gonna discount
anything because that's like anything
that's self-blaming
or implies a deficiency i'm gonna
sidestep as best as i can
well doesn't it take two to tango like i
have people reach out to me
okay you know it's like i don't feel
like i reciprocate in the same way that
they're coming to me you know what
what keeps you from reciprocating just
i'm too used to being on my own kind of
thing you know like
that's my normal that's my normality
it's like i'm off on my
world i'm sure that habit has something
to do with it but
i would say like you know so for example
today
can you think of a single person that
you can reach out to
after we're done talking of course
and will you do that
yes okay and
what is going to be the purpose of you
reaching out to them
to talk to them okay i don't i don't
like having
ultimate terrier motives or anything
yeah you know and and so like what is
something can you think of a person that
there's something that a part of you
wanted
there's a part of you that wanted to
share but you held back with a
particular person can you think of a
scenario like that
um like ideally within the last like
week or two
because it can be weird if it's like a
six month old interaction but
i mean just like i'm just like talking
about something like
maybe something silly like just
something that happened like that kind
of you know like i'm not gonna give like
a specific example but
it's just those are the kind of moments
you know like i just never reach out to
people
yeah so i i so here's what i would
recommend to you
brandon is do that today
reach out to someone and do whatever
whatever you normally do
do more and this is the the main thing
so this is not going to be about
forming friendships this is actually
going to be a part of your
meditation practice okay
okay so what i want you to do is as you
reach out to someone so i want you to
think about something that
you have kept hidden from someone else
like it doesn't have to be like
deep dark secret you know but like you
know that voice in your mind that tells
you like oh they don't want to hear
about that
like i just made a bunch of money on amc
or i lost a bunch of money on
dogecoin like you take your pick right
and or even it's it and like i would
take
something that you're uncomfortable with
sharing something and this is where the
meditation practice comes in
as you think about the interaction your
mind
is going to tell you reasons not to do
it
your mind is going to tell you oh they
don't want to hear about that
oh that's gonna be too much like that's
gonna sound pathetic i'm gonna like
like you know like i'm gonna it's so
pathetic i'm so pathetic if i say that
to them
and notice it aware it oh become aware
of it
in the moment and sit with that feeling
don't try to explain oh this i'm just
doing this because it's my habit
like like and then like you're gonna
notice the because pop up
just sit with that feeling which makes
you feel for lack of a better term ugly
it's a feeling of ugliness
right like it's like deformity
deficiency like it's something
and then i know it's gonna sound weird
but i want you to watch
so then i want you to share whatever it
is that you don't want to share
and if you can't share it that's
actually okay
just notice what it is that keeps you
from sharing
notice that feeling of deformity and
ugliness and deficiency
is so powerful that you can't actually
like
get the words out or
share it and as you share it notice what
happens to that feeling
watch it don't even worry about what
they say just watch yourself
okay what do you think about that
i can do this quest accepted
okay awesome
yeah i i think brandon this has a lot to
do with you man i mean i know i said
this self you know i know some of what
i'm saying is gonna sound
not hypocritical but contradictory it's
tangled up
but i think you're sure it's all about
you but not about you
yeah so your shortcoming is that you
accept more shortcomings than you're
responsible for
i can agree with that but yeah okay
never mind
yeah yeah yeah so it's fine to have the
butt right like i'm not
disputing the butt has value i think in
your case you just
lean too much on what's on the other
side of the butt
let's get taken out of context i do lean
to the butt a lot
yeah right the butt the because
the the like and and that's where like
because
when you get into the logic like you
move away from that feeling and what you
need to do is sit with that feeling
because that's the feeling that like you
know like when you were failing out and
like
yeah you know what did your parents do
when they found out that you had to
repeat a year they didn't care
right because i had i just like told
them like i'm gonna do this
and then they're like okay so like like
it's hard but like
it's hard to give people the opportunity
to care about you
when you've learned over and over again
that people don't give a [ __ ]
so you don't want to overwhelm them but
like in overwhelming them like you're
giving them the opportunity to like
give a [ __ ] but you don't want that
because people have had a lot of
opportunity like
did anyone ever ask like what's wrong
with this kid does this kid need help
like why isn't he coming to class
not really right so like no one has
cared about you before
why would they care about you now
and it's hard it's hard because as long
as you don't ask like that
truth like you don't open up to people
because like
right now you've convinced yourself that
that's a question mark maybe people do
care about me i'm dating someone clearly
right so like someone cares me you have
a cat there's there's like my cat cares
about me
there's there's a certain amount of like
ambiguity about like
am i worth caring about or not but if
you go back to opening up to people like
and you learn that lesson again then all
hope is lost
okay sorry i'm just like i feel like
emotionally exhausted right now
yeah yep i think we're done for day
today yeah yeah
okay i mean i appreciate this and it was
definitely a good experience
and hope like it helped anybody out
there that
also may be going through stuff like
this so
yeah thanks thanks for the time gg
yeah see you later
yeah good awareness there i'm
emotionally exhausted too how about
y'all chat
sometimes people dodge for like the
first two hours
no but he wasn't dodging i i think we
both genuinely that was a little bit of
a joke